[Music]
good afternoon and thank you for joining
us our reg at our regular board meeting
of the Board of Trustees of the AL Pasa
Community College District it's being
held today Tuesday February 25th at 4:30
p.m. this regular meeting is being held
in the administ ative service center
located at 9050 V count Boulevard order
CH room
A200 we it will be viewable through EPCC
YouTube channel they can refer to the
link
https
www.youtube.com back user back
sccc can we all stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance
please flag of the United States of
America the stands
na
indivisible
andice Miss B please to the roll call
yes Mr xer here Mrs robless here miss
naha here Mr Mendes here Dr gram and Mr
hag will not be here judge hag's on his
way okay judge hag's on his way um item
1.4 approval of minutes this in this
includes the January 25th 2025 special
Board of Trustees
meeting Moe to approve
second Mr xer I Mrs robless hi Miss naha
hi Mr Mendes
hi item 1.5 welcome to guests and staff
members item 1 .6 open Forum there is
none section 1.7 presentations by
individuals groups and organizations
item 1.7.1 Mr Daniel Graves CP CPA CCA
Weaver and Tidwell LLP will present the
results of the internal audit of SB 17
compliance members of the board U Mr
Graves was so kind to lead this as you
know um s sp17 was passed in the last
legislative session as a result the
college must go through an audit to
ensure that we are in compliance with s
sp7 uh we contracted with Weaver uh and
they um conducted an audit for us
please thank you for having me yes um
it's a pleasure to be here tonight as
your uh contracted internal auditor it's
been a long time coming I know we
started the proposal process prior to co
then Co hit and then it all kind of
everything happened and then you you
relet that and and we're happy to be
here tonight um love working with
community colleges throughout the state
of Texas as Dr tarata said uh the first
audit that we got to do for the college
this year uh if we go to the next slide
is our uh s sp17 compliance
audit I'll keep going it'll show up here
in a
minute that internal audit uh as the the
state auditor's office uh inquire was
was sending inquiries through all the
different oh thank you I didn't realize
I had a
pointer the state auditor office put out
inquiries throughout some a lot of the
community colleges and universities
throughout the state of Texas and
essentially asked if they were going to
do the uh an internal audit of s sp17 if
not I believe that the the Sao was going
in and doing audits on a selected basis
and so that was our first audit this
year that internal audit included uh the
compliance with sb17 as codified within
the Texas Education Code section 51.
3525 um through our procedures uh
ultimately you got a clean report we
found no findings as part of the report
uh so there was nothing really to bring
you today we did however have some
improvement opportunities that
essentially um included different
documents throughout the the college
throughout the hiring procedures
throughout the onboarding also
throughout uh the website site that
essentially could be enhanced or
modified to be more clearly in
compliance with sp7 there were a few
things that were kind of in a gray area
and so we brought those to the attention
of College administration and they
addressed those immediately and so
ultimately uh that was the audit you got
a clean audit report there were no
findings just some opportunities for
improvement and so I'm very happy to
bring that to you tonight and let you
know that through our audit um that
again no findings so uh congratulations
to
uh Dr zarata uh and all the College
administration for
that
questions yes sir yeah I I I guess I I
don't understand but it all that goes on
I'm not in Human Resources but I see
this as SBI 17 signed into law in 2023
and if you watch the news Dei has become
a a big subject to look at and there's a
presidential order that addresses this
concept and I and I say that only
because I'm familiar with the idea that
I heard the words but how does this
relate to whatever is going on that's
come out of Washington and and whatever
is being proposed what is s sp7 what is
the current position that we should be
looking at and how are we responding and
do we have anything we need to do be
concerned
about that's a big question have at
it well as SB 17 and general counsel I
don't know where they're they're at but
they can correct me or step in at any
moment um sb7 is is from the Texas
Senate and so this is the Texas
legislature really doesn't have anything
attached to what's going on nationally
or federally uh at the moment this this
actually came out before the the newest
Federal pronouncements and S sp17
essentially tells public colleges and
universities that Dei can't be a part of
hiring practices differential treatment
can't be part of any mandatory training
uh it does not impact curriculum so
curriculum is set aside it also does not
impact what the college can do to apply
for and demonstrate uh statistics as
part of federal grants or to to apply
for
Grants
um checking to see a couple other
things
um no anti-is it doesn't impact Federal
anti-is mination and what goes on in
compliance with federal
anti-discrimination
laws uh course instruction does not
affect student organizations so there
can be student organizations uh that
have Dei Concepts associated with them
does not impact those at all does also
does not impact any guest speakers or
performers uh student recruitment or
admissions
um and it it really is centered around
not spending in money related to those
topics that are state funded so no no
State money can be spent on that and so
this report is impacted for what the
what Texas came out with prior to any
federal uh any federal outlay and we
haven't seen any direct impact other
than from a federal standpoint yet on
mandates for the the shells and shell
Nots other than you know things like the
the
NCAA uh rules that are coming out in
being impacted by that but of course the
ncja I'm sure will will follow
suit so with respect to what our
agreement is with you and your your
organization we you've completed and and
whatever is going on
nationally subse you know subsequent to
to uh the swearing of a new president a
new Administration that has no bear
there's no reason to revisit anything
that you have in your report here not
yet it's
as
far there's been nothing ferally that's
been pushed down that impacts or
anything that we'd have to revisit but
if there did then we would need to
rewrite our agreement with you because
as far as we're concerned you have we're
we're complete with this report as of
what it applied to when when it you know
correct yeah we've completed the scope
and objectives of this report now as
your your contracted internal auditor we
have a contract I think I believe for 3
years Plus renewal so we're we're in the
process five years part of um my clicker
went away if we could go back to the
prior slide oh that's fine we we also
there we go the the bottom section there
we're also in the middle well actually
we're at the tail end of our internal
audit risk assessment and so what that
is is we've performed u a facilitated
entity-wide risk assessment that
covers pretty much all of the college's
operations and significant activities
and we we went through we had a a
halfday meeting with the president and
his cabinet and walked through those
areas and walk through the risks and we
are on the tail end now developing a
multi-year internal audit plan that we
will bring back to you for approval back
to the the Board of Trustees for
approval and so we'll be presenting that
in the future to you and that will lay
out a multi-year plan of other audits
that we will do in subsequent years so
we're C covered with respect to
potential activities that we may be
subject
to correct subject to this report right
here I mean as as as the environment
changes then we can you know that we can
adapt and respond appropriately yes sir
so good I I would like to be ready to
respond rather than somebody come up and
saying you didn't do it well that that's
that's hopefully what we're getting in
front of we've addressed this uh We've
addressed SP sp7 and any new uh Federal
State local compliance that we need to
address as part of the internal audit
plan we can adapt and nimbly change that
internal audit plan to respond to any of
those changes thank
you any other
questions yeah Miss N I want to thank Mr
Graves um based in Austin came out and
he and his team did a a great job of
ensuring that the college is in
compliance with sb7 as it currently
stands we're obviously in a legislative
session currently there's lots of bills
that are being proposed um nothing has
passed yet but as of um as of today we
are in compliance with s sp7 certainly
want to appreciate uh want to thank Mr
Graves and his team for the extensive
audit that they did with our team as
well thank you so much thank you very
much item
1.7.2 Mr Keith Erikson of the Northeast
Rotary Club will make a presentation to
the Board of Trustees regarding the
flags for Heroes at the Trans Mountain
campus
good afternoon how you all doing today
thank you great thank you welcome great
thank you I want to thank you guys so
much uh thank the board for allowing us
last year to do flags for Heroes on the
property up at uh on uh over on uh
Gateway North and
Diana um without that support I don't
know where we would have been um we
raised we with the funds that we rais
over over doing flight flag for Heroes
um that that fun those funds are are
used to help El Paso Community College
uh EPCC I'm sorry uh UTEP and uh uh El
pasoans fighting hunger and many other
great organizations we last last
December we gave
$39,000 away and it was a lot it was it
went for to really deserving causes and
so we're again hitting 2025 with the
ground running we're multitasking we
have a we're in the process of getting a
golf tournament uh together at painted
Dunes but we're also going back to do
Flags or Heroes again and if you're not
familiar with what that program is
through a donation for $100 you get your
hero's name placed on a flag and it's
displayed four times a year on that
property that's on the uh on the the
north side of Diana going towards uh
Gateway that hero could be living or it
could be
deceased and so we like to honor our
Heroes all the time and I will tell you
you have been our hero and so we've
we've donated a flag for you and we also
have the certificate and we like to I'd
like to present this to the board for
once again being our hero this is a very
emotional thing for me because we've
done a lot of good things in the
community we can't thank you enough and
so I'd like to give this to you guys
thank
[Applause]
whatever they prer
either way
item 1.7.3 Dr William serata College
president will recognize individuals who
have retired from El Paso Community
College
chair naha and members of the board
always a Bittersweet moment when we
recognize our our great staff who has
chosen to to move on to retirement
tonight we're going to be honoring uh
Olga La lazarin broom um tonight we
recognize and celebrate the incredible
career of Olga La lazarin broom who's
retired from El Paso Community College
after nearly 30 years of dedic ated
service her journey with EPCC began in
1995 as a work study student through her
unwavering passion for higher education
and commitment to Student Success she
grew into a vital member of our
community eventually becoming a
full-time Admissions and registration
assistant for the inter international
student office over the years she has
played an instrumental role in guiding
students from diverse backgrounds
through the admissions and Visa
processes helping them achieve their
academic dreams her impact extends far
beyond the office Olga has been an
integral part of the admissions and
registration team representing EPCC at
apply Texas intake sessions tacro
conferences and operation College Bound
as well as serving on numerous College
committees her deep belief in the power
of education is evident in the practice
compassion and care she brings to her
work in fact EPCC was an essential part
of her own educational Journey with the
support of the college she earned an
associate of arts and criminal justice
before going on to complete her
bachelor's degree in the same field her
colleagues will miss her tremendously
she has always gone the extra mile
ensuring that every student and staff
member received the best possible
support if she didn't have an answer she
would find it her commitment to
Excellence and willingness to help
others have left the lasting mark on
EPCC as she embarks on this new chapter
she looks forward to spending more time
with her children and grandchildren but
her passion for learning does doesn't
stop here she's already enrolled at New
Mexico State University to pursue her
master's degree in social work Miss
ladin broom your dedication and hard
work have made a profound impact on this
college and the many lives that you've
touched we're deeply grateful for your
service and while we will miss you we
celebrate this exciting next step in
your journey thank you Miss Larin broom
[Applause]
be and take a picture with you
thank you
[Applause]
item
1.7.4 optional presentations will be
made by the presidents of the classified
staff Association the professional staff
Association The Faculty Association and
the student government
Association what they do issue them
uniforms
good evening members of the board Dr
sarata Vice Presidents faculty and staff
and honor guest my name is Luis Gonzalez
and I'm truly honored to be here today
as a member of the student government
Association and new student
orientation I was privileged to
represent apcc at the Texas capital at
Austin and I want to take a moment to
thank you all for making this an
incredible experience
possible I would like to express my
gratitude to the once again Board of
Trustees Dr sarata apcc leadership the
apcc new orientation team and everyone
who worked behind the scenes to make
this opportunity possible I special
thank you to staffer Sophia
Garcia from Senator husman's office who
took the time to meet with us and talk a
little bit of how us students can be
involved into the political
process one thing she said that really
stuck with me was that we as students
have the power to accomplish
anything hearing that from someone who
working directly in the heart of our
state government made me realize that
the only limits we Face are the ones we
accept if we step up speak out and take
action we are capable of creating a
lasting
change however this despite the
inspiration and opportunities for
representation I also faced a moment of
harsh reality when walking to the
streets of
Austin with my peers we encountered an
act of
racism from a homeless
individual this moment made me realize
that despite the progress in many ways
Human Society has bias will exist and
will continue to
exist even though I it will be a moment
to Define my trip as something bad I
took this as a learning opportunity and
reason to continue raising my voice and
advocating for my
rights coming back from Austin I am more
driven than ever I saw firstand the
impact that community colleges have in
shaping lives and how important it is
for students like us to be involved in
the
conversation I also learned that
adversity will always be present but
what matters is how we respond to it and
I choose to respond with strength
knowledge and
action once again thank you for giving
me this opportunity thank you for
investing in students and believing our
boys deserve to be heard this trip
changed my life and I hope that my
experience can serve as a testament why
Sur pring community colleges is not just
an investment in education but an
investment in a better more just Society
thank you and go
[Applause]
hanos good evening Dr serata and members
of the board I am isak Diaz Palma I'm
vice president of EPCC sgaa and this
evening I would like to take a moment to
share some of the insights that we
gained during our recent trip to Austin
for Community College day but before I
do I want to extend our sing gratitude
to Dr serata members of the board as
well as to miss
Rivas um Dr Amaya Miss Olivas Miss
Sanchez and everyone who play a role in
making this race possible one of the
main themes for our tree was advocacy
which we understand as public support
for a cause or policy advocacy is vital
because it allow us to represent our
community's interests and stand out for
what matters the most throughout this
experience we learned that advocacy can
succeed when we put enough effort and
more importantly when we come together
as a collective Force to pursue our
goals I was truly inspired by walking
through the capital aisles and getting
to know how government works one
memorable moment for me OCC when I was
in Dr Gonzalez office speaking with her
staff one of her staff members told me
not to lose hope even in the current
challenging political climate as long as
we continue to speak and stand out for
what we believe in we will find a path
forward it was at that moment that I
truly realized the importance of our
work every draft every training session
every meeting and every bit of
preparation had led us to this
meaningful opportunity to advocate for
our CA now that we're back in El Paso I
believe that our next responsibility is
to share the knowledge we've gained with
our fellow s members as well as with our
friends and family this way the
information we learn doesn't stay just
with us but instead it spreads out to
our community I remember when Dr Amaya
was telling us when we were leaving the
capital building that it's now up to us
to pass on what we learn so that future
generations and everyone in our network
will be better equipped to make a
difference once again thank you for this
incredible opportunity we are excited to
continue participating in events like
this so so that we can keep learning and
contributing to a brighter future not
only for ourselves but for our entire
Community thank
you thank you all for representing Us in
Austin for Community College days B can
you make sure you uh reflect that judge
Hagerty is here um he got here when they
were presenting and he'll be taking over
from here yes
ma'am thank you
bnie come on up there the best speech of
the whole I made it just in time I
missed you Mr Hagerty where were you gee
I don't have to answer that
[Laughter]
wow uh greetings trustees Mr president
vice presidents Deans guests in person
and in the vastness of cyers
space two years ago the dominant
political party in Texas attempted to
eliminate tenure in Texas public
colleges and universities fortunately
that effort failed two years later in
the present day that political party is
once again advocating the elimination of
tenure as I did back in 2023 I quote the
Great American Patriot Thomas Payne when
I say these are the times that try men's
Souls the official party platform of
that dominant political party States in
paragraph
108 we support abolishing the system of
tenure in Academia and advocate ate
replacing it with a merit-based system
for Teacher retention of course this
political party would be the one to
write the rules for retention and those
rules would
undoubtedly State their particular
propaganda in addition Texas State
representative Matthew
Shaban a member of the dominant
political party has introduced hb1
1830 which states an institution of
higher education may not Grant an
employee of the institution tenure or
any type of permanent employment status
Here We Go Again folks that same
dominant political party is for the
second legislative session in a row
seeking to deprive us of our
livelihood but this should come as no
surprise as the same political party at
the national level has already deprived
thousands of federal government workers
of their livelihood and a most
capricious vengeful and uncaring
attitude to paraphrase the great Thomas
Jefferson and the Declaration of
Independence that particular political
party
whose character is thus marked by Every
Act which may Define a tyrant is unfit
to be the ruler of a free
people thank
you thank
you anybody
else section 1.8 Communications item
1.8.1 discussion and review regarding
data statistics policies and general
information Rel related to aeso
Community College by the Board of
Trustees chair Hagerty and members of
the board um I invite Dr uh Andrea wolf
uh to come up and provide the board with
an update on our 2025 quality
enhancement plan Dr Wolf
please hi first of all thank you so much
for this opportunity to talk to you
about our quality enhancement plan
otherwise known as the Q as Dr SRA
mentioned I am Dr Andre wolf and I am
the director of QEP and assessment here
at Al Paso Community College and today
I'm going to talk just a little bit
about what is our Q as well as some of
the data we have thus
far okay so um first you should know
that our Q is part of our accreditation
process it's required to address either
student learning or Student Success
there are two requirements for the topic
one it must be data driven and it must
be selected through a process involving
all institutional stakeholders for us in
our process a couple years ago we had a
QEP topic selection task force that had
a lot of institutional stakeholders um
they looked at the data we had two
institutional wide surveys we then also
had a QP Town Hall um afterwards once we
had our topic we then had a QEP
development task force with more
stakeholders to come up with our
interventions so let me tell you a
little bit about the cycle it takes 5
years to develop a plan this plan is
then reviewed by Sac CRC and they give
us our recommendations or suggestions at
that point we have 5 years to implement
our plan then we turn in a five-year
report to SAC CRC we are now in our
third year of
implementation so our QP is Find Your
Way connect discover succeed our focus
is to improve Student Success our
primary goal is that students take
ownership of their academic and career
paths and our primary assessment is the
decrease of um the average semester
credit hours for um our
graduates now we have three sets of in
interventions the first set has to do
with communication so um we're talking
about communicating with students both
um about programs events as well as the
colleg goinging culture so first we have
a start here EPCC start here video you
may have some of you on the board may
have mention uh seen it a couple years
ago um it is both in English and Spanish
I know she's not here but thank you to
Dr Graham for that suggestion of having
it in Spanish um it covers expectations
such as you're supposed to go to new
student orientation NSO you're supposed
to visit your first year experience
adviser and do something called an
educational plan and I'll tell you about
that what that is in just a moment we
also have requests to promote forms now
the idea here is that we have this Hub
my.pcc.edu that has announcements and
upcoming events and we want that to be a
main communication hub for our students
so in order to encourage ownership of
this site from our faculty and staff
we've asked them to do um complete
requests to promote forms whenever they
have an event in this way the the sites
populate with all of our events and
they're telling other students hey this
is the place to go and this has really
been
successful also um new student
orientation had a little bit of a boost
we gave 10 interns for new student
orientation um these interns were
incredibly important because they did a
lot of the community outreach Outreach
to students new students to come
furthermore this became a place that we
can give really important information so
for example we had students on our task
force as well as on our in um in the
town hall who mentioned that they didn't
even know they were supposed to do EPCC
email the first couple of months they
were here and so we knew there was
something that we need to address at NSO
we have computers and one of the things
they absolutely um the interns do is
that once they come in they say hey have
you entered your EPCC email yet have you
logged in would you like help and they
do that in the beginning at breaks and
at the end and of course we assess that
as well forther this is a place they
learn about degree works this is the
program that students can digitally look
at their um degree plan and they can
also play around with it a little bit
like hey what happens if I decide to
change my major how many more classes
would I have to take it's a great tool
and finally again they hear about first
year experience advisers and to do those
educational
plans now there's another part of our CP
and that has to do with the faculty we
invited all the disciplines to do one of
three interventions one is a career day
event and you'll see the two pictures
there are from previous career day
events um these are very big events that
address hundreds of students they're a
big deal um it take a lot it takes a lot
to host them um but they put in the work
and effort and um the idea is that we
have people from the community that come
in and talk about careers um as from in
the community as well as say um what
kind of career can you get with a
Philosophy degree with a criminal
justice degree these are great events
that students really have a lot of take
a lot of value in um the Carew
reflection assignment so we have two
different types of assign assignments a
career reflection assignment and an
assignment using degree works that
program we talked about that digitally
looks at those um degree
plans so these run the gamut these
aren't one set assignments these
assignments are owned by faculty and
disciplines and they run the gamut from
doing journal entries to doing
reflection um homework assignments
posters projects they um they've really
taken ownership of this project and um
it's throughout all of the the um all of
the different uh ah lost by TR thought
all the different um uh disciplines that
are are are implementing
those okay finally we get to the
educational plans yay all right so the
educational plans are different than
degree plans in a really important way a
degree plan is a list of required preset
courses in each program of study whereas
an education plan is a step-by-step roap
that can be customized toward students
individual needs this means um as they
meet with the students um the first year
experience advisors meet with them twice
in the fall twice in the spring they
have these conversations and it talks
more about not just here's your degree
plan but the challenges they may have um
the um changes in their lives that might
happen um they are also these FY
advisers become an important bridge to
all the different resources we have hey
you're having a problem figuring out
this is the right career for you go to
career and transfer services you need to
um work full-time instead of part-time
hey maybe you can look at some of the
scholarship opportunities we have um
you're having some trouble with one of
these courses that you need to pass to
move forward did you know about our
tutoring so they become a great bridge
for that um so and they hear about the
expectation for doing these education
plans remember it's it's kind of stacked
they hear it from that video they hear
it at NSO they get an invite through
email which is why it's so important
they enter that email and then they also
hear it from faculty and other
counselors okay so the
data um this is some of the data because
we have a lot of data but the data in
general really shows um positive all the
way through so here is um a screenshot
from our start here video um we started
with 1,349 Clicks in
2022 we this past year it's done by
January to January
1,864 combined clicks and so we're
moving up the request remote forms are
also moving up from 93 in the Academic
Year of 2022 2023 to 154 this last past
Academic Year and I just recently talked
to Jim heiney who said that we're
already past that number and we're only
in February
new St orientation has some of the best
data so um we're up to this they do it
by season season of summer so this is
season 2024 just last summer
3,197 participants which represent 80%
of our ftic that's the best we've ever
had um that's up from 2766 which is 65%
of FTS um back in
2023 so we assess every single part um
this is from an exit survey so 83
respondents from that survey logged into
their email 95% said they were confident
using degree Works coming out of NSO and
93 respondents planned to meet with
their FY adviser all good
stuff career day events since 2022 we've
had 62 career events which is incredible
that served 4,419 students um we've had
30 different disciplines participate 98%
of the again we do an exit survey for
this as well 98% of the respondents
reported that the events were good use
of their time and 96 talked about how
the information was valuable to them so
clearly students are um these
experiences are important for their for
our
students so our total completed surveys
for career reflection assignment and the
assignment using degree works is
3,75 that's our number that they
completed the survey but obviously it's
only a fraction of the number of those
who actually did the assignments um we
also from these 80% said that their
career reflection assignment was useful
to them even though 40 1% previously did
a similar assignment that was one of our
concerns hey if they're doing reflection
over here and reflection over here
wouldn't that become roote but this um
this inter intervention was grounded in
the research that students needed to
have repetition it wasn't enough to have
one class where they talked about P
reflection and then didn't do it ever
again so this actual data supports that
as well and also the assignments using
degree Works 87% said that the
assignment was useful to them even
though almost 50% had used degree Works
before they still found value in these
assignments and finally our first year
experience um we went up from 1,022
which is 24% of f tixs in 2022 2023 to
1,200 which is 30% of ftic we can't wait
to see that number
grow and finally our average semester
credit hours we noticed a nice downward
turn 78 to 75 to 74 um a small caveat I
would mention that the QP only started
two years ago so it's unlikely that the
Q had a huge impact on these particular
numbers and far more likely we have
other interventions here at EPCC that
affected these numbers but I would say
that Student Success is everyone's
business here at El Paso Community
College and so we should all be proud
about these numbers any
questions oh great thank you Dr W thank
you section 1.9 Board of Trustees
business item 1.9.1 discussion and take
action to authorize the president or his
design to execute a limited license
agreement between the college and Rotary
International District 5520 regarding
the installation of certain American
flag displays on the Trans Mountain
campus motion to approve second any
discussion go ahead doc you you have
anything to say about it yeah I I have a
question what what do they mean a
limited license agreement me I mean you
can you can't what does it mean I'd
asked Mr Orga to weigh in um Mr uger we
previously uh prepared and had uh the
Rotary International District actually
signed a limited uh license agreement so
this is something that has been approved
by the board in years past this is just
to provide them an ability to plant the
flags alongside uh EPCC property and
it's only limited to that specific
purpose is that what the limited means
just restricted the area yes sir oh okay
sure Mr xer hi Mrs robless hi Miss naha
hi Mr Mendes hi Mr Hagerty
I items 1.9.2 and 1.9.3 will be
discussed after executive session item
1.9.4 discussion and take action to
formally approve the op Paso Community
College vision and mission
statements motion to approve second any
discussion call a question Mr xer hi Mrs
robless hi Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr
Hagerty
hi item
1.9.5 discussion and take possible
action regarding the upcoming regular
Board of trist's meeting for April
2025 chair Hagerty and members of the
board um there is a uh TCH Association
of community colleges meeting that is
scheduled on um our board meeting day
April 23rd given that it's a legislative
session I think it's important for me to
attend that respective meeting uh the
following Wednesday is April the 30th um
I offer that as an opportunity if the
board so
chooses any motion to move it to the
30th I make a motion that we move the
board meeting to April
30th have a second
second any discussion call the question
Mr xer hi Mrs robless hi Miss naha hi Mr
Mendes hi Mr Hagerty
I section 1.10 board reports item 1.10.1
Treasures report no action is required
this includes January 31 2025 financial
statements item 1.10.2 president's
report item 1.10.2 point1 Dr William
serata call College president will
update the Board of Trustees and and
audience on recent events that have
transpired at op peso Community College
chair har members of the board always a
pleasure to bring you up to speed on
some of the events that are taking place
at the college I'd like to begin my
report by sharing that the EPCC art
department is publishing its first
episode in a new series of podcasts
called Art is Studios featuring EPCC
alumni sharing their post-graduation
experiences the first episode was
recorded in January and Fe teers Brianna
Riva a student who graduated in 2017 in
the podcast she discusses her
experiences with art associate professor
Frank rimbach and shares how EPCC was
instrumental in launching her creative
career the episode was made available on
February 17th of this year the College
and El pasoans fighting hunger hosted a
grocery giveaway at the Trans Mountain
campus this event marks the fourth
collaboration between the College and El
Paso and fighting hunger to address food
insecurity in the Community hundreds of
individuals including students faculty
staff and local residents participated
in the event receiving free food items
such as fruit vegetables chips potatoes
canned goods and beverages we would like
to thank the El pasoans fighting hunger
EPCC Campus Life new student orientation
and the EPCC Student Government
Association for making this event
possible through the partnership this
collaboration is part of EPCC ongoing
effort to combat food and security
having previously organized similar
events in July 2024 at the vi campus
October 2024 at the mission Del Paso
campus and December 2024 at the Rio
Grande campus Professor Marg Margie
Nelson Rodriguez presented on a panel at
the 2025 modern language Association
Convention in New Orleans entitled the
academic Workforce in languages and
literatures research and advocacy
Professor Nelson presented the work
completed by the committee thus far and
outlin the next steps to Drafting and
Publishing the committee's report she
has also been invited to present at the
central Illinois Regional English
co-requisite Institute in Springfield
Illinois in May and to participate in
the great questions Foundation Workshop
later this spring Professor Nelson will
participate in four virtual workshops
with Community College faculty
Nationwide they will explore and model
discussion based pedagogy based on
selected po HS of Emily Dickinson and
mediations by Renee desaris this work
will directly benefit those students in
El Paso and Beyond thank you Professor
Nelson for your exemplary representation
of El Paso Community College the Rio
Granda campus hosted an open house for
prospective high school students
showcasing the state of art
state-of-the-art facilities within the
health Career and Technical education
math and science division over 60 local
students attended the event which was
organized in collaboration with EPCC
recruitment to explore various programs
labs and support services students who
attended expressed interest in various
programs including Dental Assisting
dental hygiene diagnostic medical
sonography
echocardiography patient care technician
Emergency Medical Services medical
assisting technology medical coding
medical lab technology health
information management pharmacy tech
physical therapist assistant Medical
Imaging
Radiology Respiratory Care technology
and surgical technology thank you to our
faculty and staff for hosting students
and the community as well as our Deans
for the great work the vi government
discipline organized its first annual
health and wellness Fair on Thursday
January 30th at the cafeteria Annex
approximately 340 student staff and
members of the El Paso Community
received data and other materials from
20 information tables donated blood were
tested for diabetes and STDs and or
listened to the four Health lectures
given throughout the four hours the
event lasted some organizations present
during the event were UMC the El Paso
Public Health Department project VA
vient project Amistad and emergence the
event received invaluable support from
the office of student success and the
tahano passport program many thanks go
to the different departments at the at
EPCC that made the event possible
I'm proud to highlight that our apcc
nursing Associates program has the
highest pass rate in the region among
six bachelor's and associate degree
programs the 2024 National Council lure
examination are enlex firsttime Pass
rates were 96% for the associate of
applied science in nursing program and
97.5% for the certificate of completion
and Vocational nursing program
congratulations to our dedicated Nur
nursing faculty for the outstanding work
and dedication to our Student Success
congratulations to miss Rebecca Perales
Rio Grande campus librarian since
1978 for being selected by the border
Regional Library Association as
librarian of the year for 2024 Miss
pereles thank you for your years of
service at EPCC and your admirable
contributions to the library Community
EPCC cares officially opened its doors
on February 13
2025 the grand opening was a successful
event attended by EPCC administrators
Deans faculty and counselors the event
was also represented by some of our
Community Partners including the
emergence Health Network Family Services
of El Paso the peak Hospital Freedom
behavioral and UTP last fall EPCC cares
started a series of psycho educational
workshops for students faculty and staff
this spring another series of workshops
are underway I look forward to the work
and services that this program will
provide to our students Mr xer and judge
Hagerty you'll remember that we uh
spurred the idea as we visited Amarillo
College um we started the planning for
that
preco uh the the pandemic interrupted
that but we were able to get this up and
running many thanks to Dr Mitchell and
her team for moving this forward the
college hosted its inaugural children's
science technology engineering and
Mathematics or stem dat at the VI Verde
flexor this event organized by the
engineering math and physics disciplines
at the EPCC vierde campus under Dr
Rebecca sc's division aimed to engage
children of all ages in stem-based games
and activities uh this special event
coincided with engineering week provided
an ideal platform for EPCC to inspire
young minds and share the excitement of
stem Fields the event's success
highlighted how early engagement with
Technologies like Robotics and coding
can foster Innovative thinking and a
lifelong passion for learning
introducing children to stem fields at a
young age helps prepare them for the for
future advancements and influences their
educational paths and career choices
ultimately contributing to social growth
thank you faculty and staff for sparking
interest in stem and supporting the next
generation of leaders in these critical
Fields students from the apparel produ
product development and fashion
collection production classes had the
unique opportunity to learn from
renowned fashion design expert emilano
santian santian whose impressive career
includes working with prestigious Brands
such as Michael Kors Ralph luren and
Carl lagerfield provided invaluable
insights into the fashion industry
during his visit Anon shared his
experiences with students offering a
detailed walkthrough of a typical
workday in the fashion industry he
explained the intricacies of design
development including the importance of
technical packs which serve as essential
design documents his discussion
highlighted the connection between real
world practices and Technical knowledge
students are gaining in their courses
reinforcing the relevance of their
academic study santiana also conducted
one-on-one consultations with students
in the fashion collection production
class reviewing their work offering
constructive feedback and providing
valuable guidance for those aspiring to
enter the fashion IND industry his
personal engagement with students
inspired them and they eagerly asked
insightful questions about the Fashion
World congratulations to our fashion
technology students for this unique
experience the tanos our baseball team
are off to a strong start this season
with a 14-2 record and a ranking of
number 25 nationally in the
ngca D1 rankings uh this marks their
second best start in program history
following 11-0 start in 2007 the team is
currently in the midst of a 20g game
Homestead so I encourage board members
of you have the opportunity to come out
and watch them which continues until
March the 15th the tanos had an exciting
week marked by a 4 game series sweep
against ooto junior college and a
celebration of several player signings
on national Signing Day EPCC sophomore
infielder uh Carlos Malden signed with
University of Oregon uh while fellow
sophomore outfielders yahir aavo and
Joshua par committed to Cal State
Bakerfield and Texas A&M Kingsville
respectively additionally freshman
left-handed pitcher Barry Miller signed
with New Mexico Highlands
congratulations to our student athletes
as well to coach Susi for the great
season to date earlier this month the
college and United Way announced a new
partnership to offer essential services
to students in the community Through
resiliency Navigators at each EPCC
campus at a press conference held at the
mission Del Paso campus EPCC and the
United Way Representatives highlighted
how this
collaboration will help local residents
access a range of support services
including financial assistance housing
referrals help with applications and
more the United Way Navigators will work
closely with both students and the
community to connect them with these
resources Georgina Hernandez United Way
president and CEO m emphasize that this
partnership will make it easier to reach
the entire community and raise awareness
of their programs that support basic
needs mental health Financial stability
and education starting February 10th
United Way Navigators have been
available at the student parent Resource
Centers on all five EPCC campuses once a
week we look forward to the
collaboration and impact it will have on
our students and community and I believe
that we have a video available for the
board to see this particular event there
we
[Music]
go Al Paso Community College is
committed to providing students and our
community with Support Services through
our student parent and mental health
support programs as well as social
service programs access to counseling
and social service resources ensure that
our students can Thrive during the
pandemic Dr sarata was a a send fellow
in the postsecondary success for parents
initiative so in 2021 we surveyed
students and we asked them what can we
do to assist you what can we do to help
you persist and graduate so what they
said was it'd be great if there was a
center a student parent Resource Center
that we know was for us that we could
get the help we needed we ALS also would
like lactation rooms at each
campus they also said it'd be great if
the college had more familyfriendly
practices including course scheduling
and two generation event programming and
it'd be great if we could get referrals
to um college and Community Resources
and services so by 2023 we open up the
student parent Resource Centers at every
campus we open lactation rooms at every
campus we now have lactation pods also
at every campus um and we are now moving
into helping them with the college and
Community Support referrals being on
campus in addition to that allows us to
increase the awareness of other programs
that we have we focus on four impact
areas which are education Financial
stability health and BAS basic needs and
like just mentioned we cannot be more
excited about this collaboration and how
we're starting out we are proud of our
commitment at the mission Del Paso
campus in supporting students and our
student parents through the student
parent Resource Center which we
affectionately call the sprc and the
unique opportunities it provides but
with education at its core and
compassion um I think this will be a
great partnership and I hope it's just
the beginning We Believe
100% of education and we want to make
sure that we provide the services that
we bring our services and our navigation
services to the the students so they are
able to complete and meet their goals
hello my name is Daniela Garcia Morales
I'm with the community resiliency center
with the United W Paso and I'm an
Navigator uh basically my role is
connect my community members with
researchers around the community such as
snap rent assistance bill assistance
food pantries uh child car services and
a variety of services that are free to
our community members uh our services
are completely free to the public uh we
serve the El Paso the city of El Paso
I'm sorry and we are welcome everyone
that needs a hand we're happy to connect
them we're so happy that The Navigators
will be at every campus because like I
said at the start student parents are
super busy that we can make community
services available to students here on
their campus
that's going to be a huge help for them
so thank you so much uh United Way
Navigators I see them here they're
friendly they're
smiling Community resiliency
Center for
[Music]
CH
hag that concludes my report I'm happy
to respond to any questions that the
board may have uh Dr sh I think about a
year ago we went to geni you got me all
excited about the stem program what are
we doing with our
Esports yeah as as you'll recall during
my evaluation that is one of my goals
I'm working uh with Dr Amaya and our
athletic director Mr Noosa as well as Mr
Fernandez um we will we are working on
getting our Esports program and we're
going to begin it as a club sport um
before we move forward with hopefully
moving it into one of our athletic
programs judge but we are moving forward
I um have received an update from U Mr
Fernandes on where we are and um we
expect to bring further movement on that
to have it up and ready for this coming
fall judge the fall so what day well the
fall begins in August judge so okay so
if I don't hear anything in well you'll
hear you'll hear before then from me I
assure you it's been a year yeah
okay just checking I'm with you judge we
will move it forward
okay section
1.11 consent docket there are none
section two Administration item 2.1 CDE
dhb FAA local tasby policies for second
reading and approval move to
approve
second any
discussion call a question m Mr xer hi
Mrs robless hi Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi
Mr hagy
hi item 2.2 diab local tasby revised
policy for review and approval move to
approve second any discussion call a
question Mr xer I Mrs roblas I miss naha
I Mr Mendes hi Mr Hagerty
hi item 2.3 ffd a local tby policy for
first reading and
comment you a
motion no action is required oh no
action not required no
questions section the footnotes section
three personnel item 3.1 information
items institutionally externally funded
full-time staff and faculty appointments
extensions resignations and retirements
no action is required section four
Financial Services item 4.1 discussion
and action on the approval of contract
awards for printing services and
promotional items SL Apparel in an
amount not to exceed
1,722 63 move to approve 4.1 and
4.5 go ahead and read
4.5 item 4.5 discussion and action on
the approval to award a contract to
Furniture Marketing Group Inc for the
purchase of office furniture for the
employee relations office spaces in an
amount not to exceed $ 58,60
I have a second second oh I approved
first second I want a second
too any
discussion follow question Mr xer I Mrs
robless Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr
Hagerty hi
item 4.2 discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to purchase
voice over Internet Protocol VoIP
hardware and software licenses from
computer center United States Inc in an
amount not to exceed $816,000
639 for a 42-month term move to approve
4.2 4.3 and 4.4 all note all of them
sponsored by Marco
Fernandez item
go ahead and read 4.4 and
4.5 item 4.3 discussion and action on
the approval of a three-year contract
with oclc Inc for implementation and
subscription maintenance of the oclc
world share Management Services WMS easy
proxy and content DM in an amount not to
exceed
54732 for a multi-year agreement item
4.4 discussion and action on the
approval to purchase from Shi Government
Solutions a backup system Hardware
upgrade and maintenance solution for
increased data recovery in an amount not
to exceed $47,375
item 5.1 discuss discussion and action
on the approval to award a contract to
valise construction to recode the roof
of building a by ver the campus in an
amount not to exceed
$1,500,000 move to approve 51 and
52 second any
discussion I will read item 5.2 judge
item 5.2 discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to Action
Target in for upgrades and repairs to
EPCC Law Enforcement Academy firing
range at the mission Del Paso campus in
an amount not to exceed
$478,000 section six curriculum and oh
sorry you
didn't Mr xer hi Mrs robless hi Miss
naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr Hagerty
hi section six curriculum and
instruction item 6.1 discussion and
action on the acceptance of the Grant
from Humanities Texas in an amount in
the amount of $112,000 move to approve
second what's this what's this cover
Mr good evening uh judge Hagerty so uh
this grant creates awareness and uh um
information related to the little known
um punk rock music scene in El Paso uh
so I'm not familiar with Repo Man I'm
going to have to watch that movie I
guess U but it's a small but important
Grant to create awareness about uh the
music scene in El Paso well somebody
must ask for it so tell them thank you
we did yeah and um Dean Kirby is in the
audience and of course Margie Nelson
Rodriguez who you heard about earlier
presenting at the state level and of
course our grant folks as well we
appreciate their input he's going to
bring a band and they're going to play
for us one time no but there's several
events happening around the city you're
more than welcome to come out and hear
more about it okay keep us
informed thank
you uh we have a second a motion and a
second call a question Mr xer I Mrs
robbles hi Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr
Hager
hi section seven student services item
7.1 discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education CE
tuition for new
courses move to approve second any
discussion call a question Mr xer I Mrs
robless hi Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr
Hagerty hi section eight Community
Services there is none would the board
like to go into executive session yes
please item 1.3 executive and close
session the Board of Trustees May
conduct an executive or close session
pursuant to chapter 551 of the Texas
government code for one or more of the
following reasons one consultation with
its attorney to seek or receive legal
advice or consultation regarding pending
or contemplated litigation or for any
purpose authorized by law two discussion
about the value or transfer of real
property three discussion about a
prospective gift or donation four
consideration of specific Personnel
matters five discussion about security
Personnel or devices or six discussion
of certain certain Economic Development
matters the board may also announce that
it will go into to Executive session on
any item listed on this agenda if the
subject matter is permitted for a closed
session by provisions of chapter 551 of
the Texas government code any vote
regarding these items shall be taken in
Open Session item 1.3.1 discussion with
legal council regarding the negotiation
of of exchange of real property between
EPCC and county of El Paso located adj
adjacent to the mission El Paso campus
pursuant to section
551.071 of the Texas government code
item 1.3.2 discussion with legal council
regarding an EEOC charge filed by Fara
Ansari EEOC charge number
45320 24
01741 percent to section
551.071 of the Texas government code
item 1.3.3 discussion with legal council
regarding an EEOC charge filed by
Michael Mason EEOC charge number 45320
25 00659 pursuant to section 551 071 of
the Texas government code item 1.3.4
discussion with legal council regarding
a lawsuit styled Catalina valtier Pon
versus El Paso County Community College
District cause number 2024 dcv 2798 in
the 168 Judicial District Court of El
Paso County Texas pursuant to section
551.071 of the Texas government code
item 1.3.5 discussion with legal council
regarding the lawsuit styled Jesus Ortiz
versus ceso County Community College
District cause number 324 CV
00184 in the United States district
court for the Western District of Texas
of Paso division pursuant to
section pursuant to section
551.071 of the Texas government code the
time is now 5:45 p.m. and the board is
an executive
session session uh B I think we have one
issue that we have to be it's
1.9.2 right um 1.9.2 and 1.9.3 judge hag
so item
1.9.2 discussion and take possible
action regarding a law Su style Catalina
valon versus El Paso County Community
College District calls number 2024 dcv
2798 in the 168 Judicial Court of El
Paso County Texas that's the one know
action corre no action needed on that uh
1.9.3 Bill item
1.9.3 discussion and take possible
action regarding a lawsuit styled Jesus
Ortiz versus op Paso County Community
College District cause number 324 CV
00184 in the United States district
court for the Western District of Texas
El Paso Division I hear a motion I
moveed to approve the action in
accordance to what we discussed in
executive
session second
second the motion okay any discussion
call the question Mr xer hi Mrs robless
hi Miss naha hi Mr Mendes hi Mr Hagerty
hi and I'd like everyone to know that
our next board meeting is on the 26th of
March here in this board uh room at 4:30
p.m. and we're now adjourned thank you
you
thank you Jud
[Music]